CONFERENCE 2 TRANSCRIPT — Consensus Miami 2026
Agentic Commerce Track: Coinbase Developer Platform + AWS
================================================================

[Segment 1]

which is Coinbase Developer Platform and AWS. The requirement is pretty simple. Use CDP, X.4.0.2 facilitator on the base. Your agent or a service need to actually do a transaction. So it needs to receive an X.4.0.2, make a payment, or even get some kind of a resource. So this is not an optional, but a requirement for you to build because it's part of the core track. And also use some AWS infrastructure, whether it is CloudFront, Lambda for compute, or for content gating, you can use CloudFront again. And we want to see how you use AWS in your stack. So it could be any AWS services. And so basically the judging is effective use of the two protocols that I mentioned, X.4.0.2 and AWS services, and bring your innovation and real-world relevance. So I'll hand it over to Josh to talk more about Coinbase Developer Platform. Cool, thanks Deepika. Just wanted to share some project examples. This is not like an exhaustive list, but just some examples of a few things that you could consider building as part of your project for the agentic track. So the first one is obviously an agent that makes payments. So you could build an agent that maybe does shopping for a user, books travel, does some kind of like scientific or market research, does governance or coding, and as part of that needs to pay for different tools that it needs to use to accomplish whatever the user's intent was. So that's one example. As far as services within AWS and Coinbase that you could use to build that, you could host the agent in Amazon Bedrock Agent Core, for example. You could use Coinbase Developer Platform wallets to give the agent a wallet and to give users of the app a wallet. And then you can use our X.4.0.2 facilitator discovery layer so the agent can find services that it can pay for. And I'll talk about what a facilitator is in a moment, so don't worry if you don't know what that is. So that's one example. On the other side of the agentic economy from agents are the services that they pay for. So you could build one of those. You could build a service as part of your project that is monetized via X.4.0.2 that agents can discover and pay for. You could host that agent in a variety of AWS compute services, could be Lambda if you want to go serverless, could be EC2, EKS if you want to have it containerized, whatever it might be. You could front that service with CloudFront and Lambda at Edge. And we'll have a really interesting workshop later on how to do that. There's a great blog post from AWS that articulates that pattern. And then again, on the CDP side, that service, if it's gonna be paid using crypto, it will need to have a wallet that it receives funds in. And so you can use our CDP wallets to give your app or your backend a wallet for the service to receive payments. And then lastly, in that pattern, you could use our CDP X.4.0.2 facilitator so that the service can verify and settle payments on chain. And again, I'll walk through what that is and how that works in a sec. So those are a couple examples. Then you could also, of course, build an app where users are interacting with your agents and are getting wallets under the hood when they sign into the app. And you could build even an app where users are spinning up their own agents to do things like trade for them, for example. So just some examples of projects you could consider. Again, not an exhaustive list. Cool. So I wanted to step back for a minute and just explain why is agentic commerce a big deal? Why have we, as AWS and Coinbase, decided to focus our hackathon track not just on agents, but specifically agents paying for things? It may not seem obvious why. Agentic commerce is this sort of new thing that's very early and very small today, but that is broadly projected to grow. And so I wanted to spend a minute on that. So the bold claim that I would submit to you is that we cannot realize the potential of AI unless agents are able to pay for things. And there's a couple reasons for that. The first is just like inherently in the definition of an agent, an agent is doing something on behalf of a person. And so think about all the things that you do in your daily life that you have to make a payment, right? It's not just buying things at a store. It's all the services that you pay for. Think about all the things businesses and governments do that involve payment. And so if we're all gonna have agents doing things on our behalf, payments have to be a part of that story. That's the first part of why I think this claim and this hot take is valid. The second is that agents need to be able to reason economically about the tools that they're using. So today, if you get an API key and you plug it into an agent, you have your agent using a tool, the agent has no context on how much that tool costs. The service provider's billing you separately. The agent doesn't know that. It can't reason about it. It can't optimize around that. So there's a whole set of trade-offs that the agent can't evaluate. So that's the other reason why agents really have to have payment capability to be able to realize the full potential. Nothing about our economy or the internet is set up for this today. Agents, if you build an agent, it doesn't have the ability to pay out of the box. You have to stitch a bunch of things together.

[Segment 2]

And then on the service side, like service providers, not only, like you think about web publishers, merchants, API providers, not only are they not set up to like have agents pay for their services, they're actually hostile to it, right? We have this concept of bots and like, I want to block them actively from using my service. And so it's not set up for it. As far as the projected growth, McKinsey projects agentic commerce to grow to between three and $5 trillion in annual payment volume by 2030, like just four years from now. That's just agentic commerce. It's agents shopping on behalf of people, booking travel, paying for tools as part of fulfilling whatever the user's intent is. Gartner projects, and A16Z has quoted this in their state of crypto report, the broader set of agentic payments to grow to something like $30 trillion in annual payment volume by 2030, that same timeframe. So this is a broader set, not just agentic commerce, but think about agents operating in businesses, handling things like supply chain, procurement, treasury management, payments between different corporate entities. So these numbers start to represent a pretty sizable chunk of global GDP, right? Which is in like 100 to 150 trillion range. So 30 is a large chunk of that. And so upcoming generations are not going to have this concept of the agentic economy. It's just going to be the economy. And it's going to mostly be agents interacting on behalf of people and groups of people to make payments. So it's a big deal. Like the fundamental point I'm trying to make here is there are big problems to solve in this space. There's massive value to unlock. And the vision that I want you to hold in this hackathon is that can start this weekend. Like there's a role for each of you to play in building this new agentic economy. And that's really exciting. And that can start with the project that you're building here. Whether that's because that becomes a startup that you launch, or you meet your co-founder, or you just build skills that you use to build out this economy. So it's really exciting. So that's kind of why we've decided to focus this on agentic commerce. And so let me talk about X.402 for a sec. X.402, can I see a show of hands? Who has heard of X.402? Okay. We've got maybe half the room that's actually heard of it. Who feels like deeply familiar with how it works? Like you really understand it. Okay, that's awesome. We got 10, 15 people out of maybe the 100 here. Cool. So X.402 is an open, neutral protocol that was incubated by Coinbase that we've spun off now into its own neutral foundation hosted under the Linux foundation. Similar to how things like Kubernetes or the OpenAPI standard have been spun off into their own foundations and projects within the Linux foundation. So it stands for extension of 402, and this is our answer to this problem of the internet not being optimized for payments. Not just for agents, but for people. So I'll explain in a sec how this works, but fundamentally this uses the 402 HTTP status code. So you're at the hackathon, I'm assuming many of you are builders. You're familiar with status codes. 200 success, 404 not found. There was a status code baked into the foundation of the internet from like the 90s, 402, payment required. And the entirety of the spec of that status code was reserved for future use. And that there was this idea, again from the dawn of the internet, that there's gonna be a need to have payments embedded as part of the native HTTP protocol. The tech wasn't there, but it is now. So that's why we've built it. Okay, let's kind of walk through how this works. I'm gonna dwell on this for a few minutes and articulate not just the flow. You may be familiar with the kind of high level flow, but like some nuances about how X402 works. So we have an agent, we have a service. I have those in like Amazon Orange because those could both be hosted on AWS ideally, right? And so today you're a developer, you build an agent. You have to go to the service, set up an account, get an API key, plug that into your agent. Your agent's gonna use it to use the service. Again, the agent has no context on how much the service is costing you. It can't reason about that or help you with it. It's just using the tool you told it to use. So despite having all this amazing artificial intelligence, the agent is acting in a really dumb way in that pattern. With X402, the agent makes a request to the service and the service can respond now with a 402 and say, hey, you need to pay me to use me. You can pay me in all these different ways. Here's some metadata about the service that I can provide you. And then some nuances there I wanna talk through. One is that the X402 protocol is payment method agnostic. So we think, I work at Coinbase, we think crypto is great. We think agents are gonna use stable coins to pay for things. We believe that a digitally native intelligence needs a digitally native asset to pay for things. But the X402 protocol is agnostic to that. You don't have to use crypto. You can use cards, you can use payment tokens, whatever it might be. So that's one nuance. So the agent gets a 402 response. Now it can send a request to the service saying, all right, here's some payment information. Here's a signature.

[Segment 3]

They're saying that I'll pay you $0.01 USDC on base to use your API. That's an example of an exact payment that the agent can make to access the API. Another nuance here, though, is that's not the only way to do it. Because what if the service doesn't know how much it's going to cost? What if the agent is doing inference, where it doesn't know how many LLM tokens that's going to take up? So a few weeks ago, we launched part of the X.402 protocol spec called UpTo, where the agent can say, I'll pay you up to $5. And then the service can say, OK, let me run this inference for you. It ended up costing $0.80. So I'll charge you $0.80. So that's one payment scheme that X.402 supports. The other is, what about a pattern where the agent, instead of paying per call, can just pay once? Like, I'll pay you $20, and I'm going to use your API for the next month. Or I'm going to make 100 million calls to it. So that's supported as well. There's this feature in the X.402 protocol called Sign In With X, which is kind of a weird name. But what it means is, it's a way for the agent to prove cryptographically, hey, I already paid for this. I paid you $20 last week. I get to use you for the next month. So that's supported too. So let's continue walking through the flow. So the agent makes the request to the service with this payment information, this cryptographic signature, saying, hey, I'll pay you for your service. Now, the service needs to verify the agent has enough funds to make that payment. And then it needs to broadcast that payment on chain. So it needs this thing, this component of the X.402 protocol, called a facilitator, to handle those functions. And so the facilitator, again, this is an open, neutral protocol. The facilitator can be self-hosted within the service. It doesn't have to be a separate thing it calls out to. You can self-host the facilitator. If the service wants to handle things like low-level blockchain primitives, RPC calls, gas management, all those kinds of things, right? Not a problem. It's an open protocol. But there's a lot of service providers that are like, I don't know crypto. I want to outsource that to some third-party service that's highly available, low latency, highly secure, has built-in compliance, pays the gas for me. So that's sort of a third-party facilitator. We operate one as Coinbase Development Platform. There's other facilitators out there that kind of handle this function for these web publishers, API providers, and merchants that are using X.402. They can just call out to our facilitator and use it. And so that's the one that you need to use to qualify for this for the X.402 track in this authentic track of the Acron. So then the facilitator will verify and settle the payment on-chain. Again, space is a great blockchain for that. But X.402 supports whatever chain you want to use. And then the facilitator will respond to the service. The service will return the agent whatever it paid for. There's a step zero here that I'll call out, which is discovery. So the agent, how does it find these services? Well, it can call a discovery endpoint that the facilitator exposes. It says, hey, here's the catalog of every service that I've seen. Here's all the services that I've settled the payment for. Here's metadata about what they do. You can get it done with a full catalog. Or the agent could search. It could call a search endpoint on the facilitator and say, hey, I'm looking for an endpoint. My user's trying to find weather data because they have a trip to Miami coming up. I need to find weather data for Miami. And the facilitator can say, cool, I have these five services that do that. Here's their cost information. Here's the metadata about them. Here's some quality signals. Here's how many buyers have used them. Here's how many transactions we've handled. And here's when the most recent one was. So you can reason about, oh, that one looks really high quality. And it's cheap. So I'm going to use that one. So that's an important aspect of X.402 as well. Cool. So as I mentioned, we launched the X.402 Foundation with partners like AWS, major cloud providers. You can see logos down here. Major card companies like Visa, MasterCard, and American Express. Major blockchains like Base, Solana, and Polygon. So this is real. This is here to stay. We think this is the future of HTTP-native payments and making payments as native a part of the internet as HTTP itself. You can go to x402.org. You can read the white paper. There's docs there, lots of good resources. Cool. Two slides left for me, and I'm excited to pass it off to AWS. The first, you can go to agentic.market, which we launched a couple weeks ago. And you can see what's happening on X.402 as far as live data feeds of the transaction volume. And you can see a human-readable list of what are some of the top services. What's the leaderboard of services that we see agents paying for across web search, inference, data, TripAdvisor's here, all kinds of stuff here, Alchemist's here. So this is a good resource for you as you think about this project and what services you want your agent to go pay for. You can go look at this and say, oh, cool, a banker is in there if you're doing some kind of a degen trading thing. Or the graph is there if I need on-chain data or whatever it might be.

[Segment 4]

Okay, last one. Let me transition from X.402 to Coinbase Developer Platform. You've probably heard of Coinbase. You maybe haven't heard of Coinbase Developer Platform. So we are like the infrastructure arm of Coinbase. We like to say we're doing for Coinbase what AWS did for Amazon. We're taking all the battle-tested crypto infrastructure that Coinbase has built over the last 15 years to power its own products, and we're externalizing that as a developer platform, APIs, SDKs that any developer, from startups, solo devs at a hackathon, building for the first time maybe, all the way up to Fortune 500 enterprises, banks, brokerages, fintechs, payment service providers, can build on this platform so that they can use this trusted crypto infrastructure to build whatever it is they're building. So that's what Coinbase Developer Platform is. I'll talk about a few of our products. We have a broad suite. You can go to the QR code, go to our developer docs, and read about other products. Three that I think could be really helpful for you in this project over the next few days. One is non-custodial wallets. So this is API-based, programmatic, spin-up wallets for your users. Let them sign in with email, Google, X, whatever you want. Really web-to-friendly, accessible ways to do things. Users don't have to manage seed phrases or private keys. Those are all secured in Coinbase infrastructure using AWS Nitro enclaves. We've got another good workshop, I think tomorrow, talking about how that works. So those could be super useful. You can also give these wallets to your agent to let your agent pay for things. Or to your service to let your service receive payments from agents. X402 Facilitator I touched on. That's a service that we offer that agents can call to discover services they can pay for. And service providers can call to verify and settle payments on-chain. So they don't have to manage all the crypto in front. And then lastly, we have a bunch of data APIs that might be useful. If you need to display balances to users in your app, you can use our token balances API. We have webhooks where you can get on-chain events or wallet events. And then we have a SQL API. If you need to pull indexed blockchain data from the base chain, that can be really useful. You just pass in a SQL query and 200-millisecond response latency, 500-millisecond data freshness to tip of chain, you can get indexed base chain data using this API. That's all I got. I will pass it off to Jay to talk about AWS. Thanks, Josh. All right. So quick pulse check. Has Josh talked you into doing the agentic commerce track for your hack yet? Anybody? Show of hands. All right. Well, if he hasn't, I'm going to try to do it a little bit more here. So we've been talking about how this payment flow requires two sides. We've got the seller and we've got the buyer. The buyer could be a human, could be an agent. What AWS has done is taken these primitives and built some reference implementations for you to use. We're going to have a couple of links here in a moment that you can use as part of your project. The first piece of this, Josh, if you could flip to the next slide, is on the seller side. So let's just say you have a website. You've got APIs. You want to monetize these things. You want to make it so that people don't have to buy a subscription. They want to just pay per use. Well, we can turn any website into a pay-per-use content provider by leveraging CloudFront, which is our cloud distribution network. Anybody familiar with CloudFront, AWS builders? Raise your hands again, please. All right. Well, if you're not, please come talk to us over either at the table or at the booth. We can help you out with that. But what CloudFront can do now is it can implement some Lambda functions that will actually facilitate this payment. So Josh talked through the flow before, but now what we do is we put CloudFront in front of that content. And now when it goes to hit that API endpoint, it says, oh, payment required. And so that's automatically done with these capabilities that we'll share with you momentarily. And that's done through running Lambda functions at the edge. Once that happens, it goes through the facilitator. It says, okay, they want to go ahead and purchase it. This actually shows an AI agent, but that AI agent could actually be a human at this point. It goes ahead through that whole flow that Josh just said and then provides the content once it's been verified and settled on chain. So please go ahead and scan this QR code and you can get the information to this particular repo. We can go to the next slide, Josh. So now on the seller side, I'm sorry, on the buyer side, let's say you now want to create an agent. Maybe it's a research agent. It wants to go out and find documents on the web. It hits a paywall. What are you going to do? Josh mentioned that you can actually.

[Segment 5]

you provide that agent with a wallet you can actually say how much you want to spend on something it will find it it will go ahead and say yes I really want this article so it goes ahead and processes that this combines a couple of components now we have a stray strands agent SDK that can help you build your agent we also combine that with Coinbase's agent kit toolkit that enables that agent to have a wallet and then keys and things like that can be stored in AWS secrets manager and so this is all ends up getting deployed on Amazon agent core if you were here before you might have heard a little bit about agent core and how that's a runtime think of lambda functions but now it's a runtime environment for your agent to be running in and so it's a serverless environment for that and yes that's basically it so you can combine these two capabilities so that now you can have an agent that can pay for things you can have a website that can sell things complete the transaction completely autonomously and agentically so that's essentially what we're we're asking you to build and now it as part of the project the more components of AWS that you can use if you want to use our Kiro agent develop agentic developer s ID thank you that could be used as well you can come see us at the desk you can get some credits for using that and then use bedrock use cloud front use secrets manager any any any AWS component would help and the more the better in the in the judging process so go ahead and scan that QR code you get access to that repo as well you can go to the next slide Josh thanks so if we put this all together you can start to see the flow here right an agent tries to an agent goes and requests a resource it hits cloud front cloud front ends up actually you can actually have a web application firewall here so that you can control whether or not that's a bot that's coming in or human coming in and it can determine which way you want it if you want to charge for bot access you can it then goes ahead and processes these lambda functions in the lambda at edge environment and it responds back and says up this requires a payment so then we go through the process of leveraging agent kit to use the wallet you can then it then signs that payment sends it back through the front door again and now it goes through the whole flow again and it says okay now I have the headers that I need to go ahead and process this it goes ahead and exposes that content or settles it on the chain and then goes ahead and responds with a with the 200 and the content that you're looking for so we've probably gone through this but this I think puts the whole picture together for you hopefully that helps there's a blog post here if you want to read that that puts it ties all this together so help yourself to that and I think that's pretty much all we have except for maybe one more slide Josh so we have some more content more workshops coming up we're gonna be over here in the coinbase gallery so come visit us if you have any questions we'll also be at the booth there's other sessions happening tomorrow at 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. in the coinbase booth and I think that's it hopefully you'll choose our project or our track to build your project thank you